# Approle Authentication Benchmark (`approle_auth`) 
This benchmark tests the performance of logins using the AppRole auth method.

## Benchmark Configuration Parameters
### Role Configuration (`role`)
- `role_name` `(string: "benchmark-role")` - Name of the AppRole. Must be less than 4096 bytes, accepted characters 
include a-Z, 0-9, space, hyphen, underscore and periods.
- `bind_secret_id` `(bool: true)` - Require `secret_id` to be presented when
  logging in using this AppRole.
- `secret_id_bound_cidrs` `(array: [])` - Comma-separated string or list of CIDR
  blocks; if set, specifies blocks of IP addresses which can perform the login
  operation.
- `secret_id_num_uses` `(integer: 0)` - Number of times any particular SecretID
  can be used to fetch a token from this AppRole, after which the SecretID by default
  will expire. A value of zero will allow unlimited uses.
  However, this option may be overridden by the request's 'num_uses' field when generating a SecretID.
- `secret_id_ttl` `(string: "")` - Duration in either an integer number of
  seconds (`3600`) or an integer time unit (`60m`) after which by default any SecretID
  expires. A value of zero will allow the SecretID to not expire.
  However, this option may be overridden by the request's 'ttl' field when generating a SecretID.
- `local_secret_ids` `(bool: false)` - If set, the secret IDs generated
  using this role will be cluster local. This can only be set during role
  creation and once set, it can't be reset later.
- `token_ttl` `(string: "")` - The incremental lifetime for
  generated tokens. This current value of this will be referenced at renewal
  time.
- `token_max_ttl` `(string: "")` - The maximum lifetime for
  generated tokens. This current value of this will be referenced at renewal
  time.
- `token_policies` `(array: [])` - List of
  token policies to encode onto generated tokens. Depending on the auth method, this
  list may be supplemented by user/group/other values.
- `policies` `(array: [])` - DEPRECATED: Please
  use the `token_policies` parameter instead. List of token policies to encode
  onto generated tokens. Depending on the auth method, this list may be
  supplemented by user/group/other values.
- `token_bound_cidrs` `(array: [])` - List of
  CIDR blocks; if set, specifies blocks of IP addresses which can authenticate
  successfully, and ties the resulting token to these blocks as well.
- `token_explicit_max_ttl` `(string: "")` - If set, will encode
  an [explicit max
  TTL](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/concepts/tokens#token-time-to-live-periodic-tokens-and-explicit-max-ttls)
  onto the token. This is a hard cap even if `token_ttl` and `token_max_ttl`
  would otherwise allow a renewal.
- `token_no_default_policy` `(bool: false)` - If set, the `default` policy will
  not be set on generated tokens; otherwise it will be added to the policies set
  in `token_policies`.
- `token_num_uses` `(integer: 0)` - The maximum number of times a generated
  token may be used (within its lifetime); 0 means unlimited.
  If you require the token to have the ability to create child tokens,
  you will need to set this value to 0.
- `token_period` `(string: "")` - The maximum allowed [period](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/concepts/tokens#token-time-to-live-periodic-tokens-and-explicit-max-ttls) value when a periodic token is requested from this role.
- `token_type` `(string: "")` - The type of token that should be generated. Can
  be `service`, `batch`, or `default` to use the mount's tuned default (which
  unless changed will be `service` tokens). For token store roles, there are two
  additional possibilities: `default-service` and `default-batch` which specify
  the type to return unless the client requests a different type at generation
  time.

### Secret ID Configuration (`secret_id`)
- `metadata` `(string: "")` - Metadata to be tied to the SecretID. This should be
  a JSON-formatted string containing the metadata in key-value pairs. This
  metadata will be set on tokens issued with this SecretID, and is logged in
  audit logs _in plaintext_.
- `cidr_list` `(array: [])` - Comma separated string or list of CIDR blocks
  enforcing secret IDs to be used from specific set of IP addresses. If
  `secret_id_bound_cidrs` is set on the role, then the list of CIDR blocks listed
  here should be a subset of the CIDR blocks listed on the role.
- `token_bound_cidrs` `(array: [])` - Comma-separated string or list of CIDR
  blocks; if set, specifies blocks of IP addresses which can use the auth tokens
  generated by this SecretID. Overrides any role-set value but must be a subset.
- `num_uses` `(integer: 0)` - Number of times this SecretID can be used, after which
  the SecretID expires. A value of zero will allow unlimited uses.
  Overrides secret_id_num_uses role option when supplied.
  May not be higher than role's secret_id_num_uses.
- `ttl` `(string: "")` - Duration in seconds (`3600`) or an integer time unit (`60m`)
  after which this SecretID expires. A value of zero will allow the SecretID to not expire.
  Overrides secret_id_ttl role option when supplied.
  May not be longer than role's secret_id_ttl.



## Example HCL 
```
test "approle_auth" "approle_test1" {
  weight = 100
  config {
    role {
      role_name         = "test"
      bind_secret_id    = true
      token_ttl         = "10m"
      token_bound_cidrs = ["1.2.3.0/24", "1.2.4.1/24"]
      token_type = "batch"
    }

    secret_id {
      token_bound_cidrs = ["1.2.3.4/32"]
      ttl               = "10m"
    }
  }
}
```

## Example Usage
```bash
./dist/vault-benchmark run -config=config.hcl 
2023-04-26T13:02:59.943-0500 [INFO]  vault-benchmark: setting up targets
2023-04-26T13:02:59.993-0500 [INFO]  vault-benchmark: starting benchmarks: duration=2s
2023-04-26T13:03:01.994-0500 [INFO]  vault-benchmark: benchmark complete
Target: http://localhost:8200
op              count  rate         throughput   mean        95th%       99th%       successRatio
approle_test1  8794   4396.873590  4394.241423  2.273698ms  3.164222ms  4.351606ms  100.00%
```
